The fundamental
building block of
most modern neural networks
is a layer of neurons.
In this video, you'll
learn how to construct
a layer of neurons and
once you have that down,
you'd be able to take those
building blocks and put them
together to form a
large neural network.
Let's take a look at how
a layer of neurons works.
Here's the example we had from
the demand prediction
example where we
had four input features
that were set to
this layer of three neurons
in the hidden layer
that then sends its output to
this output layer
with just one neuron.
Let's zoom in to
the hidden layer to look
at its computations.
This hidden layer
inputs four numbers and
these four numbers are inputs
to each of three neurons.
Each of these three neurons
is just implementing
a little logistic
regression unit
or a little bit logistic
regression function.
Take this first neuron.
It has two parameters, w and b.
In fact, to denote that,
this is the first hidden unit,
I'm going to subscript
this as w_1, b_1.
What it does is I'll output
some activation value a,
which is g of w_1 in a
product with x plus b_1,
where this is the
familiar z value that you
have learned about in
logistic regression in
the previous course,
and g of z is the familiar
logistic function,
1 over 1 plus e to
the negative z.
Maybe this ends up
being a number 0.3 and
that's the activation value
a of the first neuron.
To denote that this
is the first neuron,
I'm also going to add a
subscript a_1 over here,
and so a_1 may be
a number like 0.3.
There's a 0.3 chance of
this being highly affordable
based on the input features.
Now let's look at
the second neuron.
The second neuron has
parameters w_2 and b_2,
and these w,
b or w_2,
b_2 are the parameters of
the second logistic unit.
It computes a_2 equals the
logistic function g applied to
w_2 dot product x plus
b_2 and this may be some
other number, say 0.7.
Because in this example,
there's a 0.7 chance that we
think the potential buyers
will be aware of this t-shirt.
Similarly, the third neuron has
a third set of
parameters w_3, b_3.
Similarly, it computes
an activation value
a_3 equals g of
w_3 dot product x plus b_3
and that may be say, 0.2.
In this example, these
three neurons output 0.3,
0.7, and 0.2,
and this vector of three numbers
becomes the vector of
activation values a,
that is then passed to
the final output layer
of this neural network.
Now, when you build
neural networks with
multiple layers,
it'll be useful to give the
layers different numbers.
By convention, this layer
is called layer 1 of
the neural network
and this layer is
called layer 2 of
the neural network.
The input layer
is also sometimes
called layer 0 and today,
there are neural
networks that can have
dozens or even
hundreds of layers.
But in order to
introduce notation
to help us distinguish
between the different layers,
I'm going to use
superscript square bracket
1 to index into
different layers.
In particular, a superscript
in square brackets
1, I'm going to use,
that's a notation to
denote the output of
layer 1 of this hidden layer
of this neural network,
and similarly, w_1,
b_1 here are the parameters of
the first unit in layer
1 of the neural network,
so I'm also going to add
a superscript in
square brackets 1
here, and w_2,
b_2 are the parameters of
the second hidden unit
or the second hidden
neuron in layer 1.
Its parameters are also
denoted here w^[1] like so.
Similarly, I can add
superscripts square
brackets like
so to denote that these are
the activation values of
the hidden units of layer
1 of this neural network.
I know maybe this notation
is getting a little
bit cluttered.
But the thing to
remember is whenever
you see this superscript
square bracket 1,
that just refers to a quantity
that is associated with layer
1 of the neural network.
If you see superscript
square bracket 2,
that refers to a quantity
associated with layer
2 of the neural network
and similarly for
other layers as well,
including layer 3,
layer 4 and so on for neural
networks with more layers.
That's the computation of layer
1 of this neural network.
Its output is this
activation vector,
a^[1] and I'm going to
copy this over here
because this output a_1
becomes the input to layer 2.
Now let's zoom into
the computation of layer
2 of this neural network,
which is also the output layer.
The input to layer 2 is
the output of layer 1,
so a_1 is this vector 0.3, 0.7,
0.2 that we just computed
on the previous
part of this slide.
Because the output layer
has just a single neuron,
all it does is it
computes a_1 that is
the output of this first
and only neuron, as g,
the sigmoid function
applied to w
_1 in a product with a^[1],
so this is the input
into this layer,
and then plus b_1.
Here, this is the quantity
z that you familiar with
and g as before is
the sigmoid function
that you apply to this.
If this results in
a number, say 0.84,
then that becomes the output
layer of the neural network.
In this example, because
the output layer has
just a single neuron,
this output is just a scalar,
is a single number rather
than a vector of numbers.
Sticking with our notational
convention from before,
we're going to use a superscript
in square brackets 2,
to denote the quantities
associated with layer 2
of this neural network,
so a^[2] is the
output of this layer,
and so I'm going
to also copy this
here as the final output
of the neural network.
To make the notation consistent,
you can also add these
superscripts square bracket 2s
to denote that these are
the parameters and
activation values
associated with layer 2
of the neural network.
Once the neural network
has computed a_2,
there's one final
optional step that you
can choose to implement or not,
which is if you want
a binary prediction,
1 or 0, is this a top seller?
Yes or no? As you
can take the number
a superscript square
brackets 2 subscript 1,
and this is the number
0.84 that we computed,
and threshold this at 0.5.
If it's greater than 0.5,
you can predict y hat
equals 1 and if it
is less than 0.5,
then predict your
y hat equals 0.
We saw this thresholding as
well when you learned about
logistic regression in
the first course of
the specialization.
If you wish, this then gives you
the final prediction y hat
as either one or zero,
if you don't want
just the probability
of it being a top seller.
So that's how a
neural network works.
Every layer inputs a
vector of numbers and
applies a bunch of logistic
regression units to it,
and then computes
another vector of
numbers that then
gets passed from
layer to layer until you
get to the final output
layers computation,
which is the prediction
of the neural network.
Then you can either
threshold at 0.5
or not to come up with
the final prediction.
With that, let's go on to
use this foundation we've
built now to look at
some even more complex,
even larger neural
network models.
I hope that by seeing
more examples,
this concept of layers
and how to put them
together to build
a neural network
will become even clearer.
So let's go on to
the next video.